# TODO: Community Link #
  
# TODO: Homework Links #

 # 3.0 Lesson - Your First iPhone App #
  
## 3.1 Lecture - Your First iPhone App With Physics Based Animation ##

In this lesson you will learn how to animate `UILabel`s (i.e. text labels) using Swift code and spring physics (i.e. bouncy animations).

## 3.2 Tutorial - Create a New Xcode 7 Project Using Swift 2 ##

It's time to create your first iPhone app. You'll need to open Xcode and create a new Xcode project for iOS using the Single View Application. This is a template that makes it easy to have a working app right away.

Press the run button in the top left corner to start your first iPhone app using the iOS Simulator, a virtual screen that shows what your app looks like.

## 3.3 Tutorial - iPhone App Flow 101 ##

When you start your first app there are a lot of things that are working behind the scenes. The Main.Storyboard file is your apps starting point from a Single View Application, where it then starts your apps first (blank) screen, the ViewController, which is associated with your ViewController.swift code file.

In this lesson you'll add some code to help you understand which code file does what and the order in which lines of code are executed.

The AppDelegate.swift is another code file full of "hooks" that you can use to run different lines of code for when your app first starts, closes, or gets terminated (force quit) by the iPhone itself.

### Links ###

* UIViewController Reference - apple.com LINK
* UIApplication Reference - apple.com LINK
* UIApplicationDelegate Reference - apple.com LINK
* iPhone App flow - apple.com LINK


## 3.4 Tutorial - Design the Button and Label UI ##

Open your Main.Storyboard file and create some UI (user interface) elements. Drag and drop UI elements from the bottom right panel onto your Main.Storyboard canvas (make sure you're not editing the LaunchScreen.Storyboard file!).

After you add some UI to the canvas press the Run button (play button) to start the app.

## 3.5 Tutorial - How to Connect App UI to Code ##

In order to change the UI programmatically or dynamically in your app you need to tell Xcode what UI element is attached to code. Creating these Outlets, `IBOutlet`s, allows you to get text input from a text field, `UITextField`, or change text displayed on screen `UILabel`. 

When you want to make something happen, like a tip calculation after typing in the bill amount, you create an Action, `IBAction`. Actions are generally created from buttons, `UIButton`, and can trigger lines of code to be executed (i.e. run code).

### Links ###

* [Creating an Outlet Connection - apple.com](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/recipes/xcode_help-IB_connections/chapters/CreatingOutlet.html)
* [Programmatically Connect Code to UI](APPLE LINK)
* [IBAction / IBOutlet / IBOutlet​Collection - nshipster.com](http://nshipster.com/ibaction-iboutlet-iboutletcollection/)

## 3.6 Tutorial - What Is Auto Layout and How to Add Auto Layout to Your UI ##

iPhone 5, iPhone 6S, iPad Pro, and iPhone 6S+ all have different screen sizes. Apple created a layout tool to make your UI (user interface) adapt to the different sizes. Auto Layout will allow you to create UI once for an iPhone and have it just work for every modern iPhone size (iPhone 4S+).

### Links ###

* Auto Layout - apple.com APPLE LINK
* Auto Layout - apple.com ????? EXAMPLES


## 3.7 Tutorial - How to Programmatically Add a UILabel Using Swift 2 ##

Adding UI via Storyboard is a good skill, but you need to learn how to do it in code as well. There are certain animation effects and dynamic interactions that are only possible via code.

You will create a `UILabel` and set up all of it's attributes to display it on the screen where you want and how big you want. You can change it's font type, text size, text color, background color, position, and transparency.

### Links ###

* UILabel Reference - apple.com APPLE LINK
* Programmatically Add a UILabel - supereasyapps.com SUPEREASY LINK


## 3.8 Tutorial - Add Animation to Your UILabel Programmatically ##

Every UILabel, UIButton, and UIImageView is a `UIView`. Since any `UIView` can be animated using many different attributes you can animate almost everything in your iPhone app UI. You can animate the alpha (transparency), position, size.

In this lesson you will work to animate your UILabel using methods (i.e. code) that Apple has written for you in the UIView class. Read the class reference to learn what features are animatable.

### Links ###

* UIView Reference - apple.com APPLE LINK

## 3.9 Tutorial - Make It Physical With Spring Physics Animations ##

Animations are used in apps to help draw attention to different parts of your apps screen. They help you transition between pages of content and allow you to add a bit of polish to your app.

Linear animations are what you started with, and they feel a bit off, and that's because the timing doesn't match what you see in the real world. Gravity and friction between objects cause things in your life to slow down at non-linear speeds. 

To make your animations look more natural and believable you will want to introduce non-linear motion using physics-based animations. This is super easy to do in your app using a different animation API (application programming interface).

### Links ###

* UIView Spring Physics Animations -apple.com LINK
* UIView Dynamics - apple.com LINK

## 3.10 Bug Fix - How to Fix 3 Common Crashes in Xcode 7 ##

As you work with code you will inevitably run into problems and app crashes. These crashes are all recoverable and you will learn three different fixes to the most common crashes for beginners.

1. Breakpoint Crash
2. Storyboard IBOutlet Crash
3. Nil Optional Crash

### Links ###

* [3 Common Beginner Crashes in Xcode using Swift - supereasyapps.com](http://supereasyapps.com/blog/2016/2/22/3-common-crashes-for-beginner-iphone-developers-in-xcode-using-swift)

	
## 3.11 Bug Fix - How to Fix 2 Common Swift Code Errors ##

Writing code for the first time is a little challenging because you don't know exactly what you're doing . . . yet.

1. Swift Compiler Error: Unresolved Identifier
2. Swift Compiler Error: Missing Matching ( )
3. Swift Compiler Error: Missing Matching { }


## 3.12 Speed Coding - How to Add UILabels Programmatically in Swift ##

## 3.13 Speed Coding - How to Animate Your iPhone App Using Spring Physics ##

## 3.14 Tutorial - Install Your App on Your iPhone - No Apple Developer Program Required ##

## 3.15 Code Exercise 1 - Hide the Labels on App Launch ##

## 3.16 Solution 1 - Hide the Labels on App Launch ##

## 3.17 Code Exercise 2 - Change the Welcome Name Using a UITextField ##

## 3.18 Solution 2 - Change the Welcome Name Using a UITextField ##

## 3.19 Quiz - Your First iPhone App (10) ##



