## 3.19 Quiz - Your First iPhone App ##

Great job!

You've created your first iPhone app with UI using Xcode as well as Swift code to create and animate text in your app. That's huge!

Let's test what you remember, use any of your notes and Google to answer these questions.

1. What resources can you leverage for learning Swift code?

	1. **Apple's Reference Documentation for high level understanding**

	2. **Google**

	3. **Apple's Documentation Guides on developer.apple.com** 

	4. **The Swift iBook** 

2. What properties are animatable for a `UIView` (i.e. a visual UI element)?

	1. **`frame`**

	2. **`center`**

	3. `left`

	4. `bottom`

	5. **`alpha`**

	6. **`backgroundColor`**

3. What does the frame property mean for a UIView?

	1. **The visual position and size of a UI element**

	2. A one pixel border around your `UITextField`

	3. **A rectangular region in 2D space**

	4. **How big something is and where it is positioned**

4. What does `myView.translatesAutoresizingMaskIntoConstraints = true` do?

	1. Disables Auto Layout for your entire iPhone app

	2. **Disables Auto Layout for the view `myView` (i.e. You can use frame-based layouts using the autoresizing behaviors)**

	3. Enables Auto Layout for the view `myView` (You can add Auto Layout Constraints programmatically)

5. What is the default value of the `UIView` property `translatesAutoresizingMaskIntoConstraints` for Storyboard elements?

	1. true

	2. **false**
6. What is the default value of the `UIView` property `translatesAutoresizingMaskIntoConstraints` for Storyboard elements?

	1. **true**

	2. false

7. What is a `UIViewController` method that you can add code to execute when your app first appears?

	1. `loadView()`

	2. **`viewWillAppear(_:)`**

	3. **`viewDidLoad()`**

	4. `viewDidDisappear(_:)`
	 
8. What is Auto Layout used for in iPhone and iPad apps?
	1. **Rules for the positions of different UI elements**
	2. **Rules to set the size of different UI elements**
	3. **Relative positions of buttons, images, and labels**
	4. **Percentage based layouts**

9. Why do subtle physics-based animations look more interesting than linear animations?

	1. **Physics-based animations match our expectations for movement in the real world.**

	2. **Linear animations feel robotic and unnatural.**

10. What symbols must be written in pairs (open and closing)?

	1. Commas ,, 

	2. **Parenthesis ()**

	3. **Quotation marks " "**

	4. **Square brackets [ ]** 

	5. **Curly braces { }**

11. What attribute or property changes the text displayed in a `UITextField`?

	1. `textColor`

	2. `font`

	3. **`attributedText`**

	4. **`placeholder`**

	5. **`text`**

12. How do you programmatically change the title of a `UIButton` named `button`?

	1. **`button.setTitle("New Title", forState: UIControlState.Normal)`**

	2. `button.text = "New Title"`

13. How do you programmatically change the title of a `UILabel` named `label`?

	1. `label.textOutput = "New text label"`

	2. `label.string = "ABC 123"`

	3. **`label.text = "I love Kangaroos!"`**

14. What lines of code are correct?

	1. **`var x = 10`**

	2. **`func doSomething() { print("Hey !") }`**

	3. `variable name = "John"`

	4. **`let y = 25`**

	5. `func doSomething { print("Hey !") }`


