2.18 Quiz - Table View and Weather Data

1. What is a Table View?
	1. **A UI element that can display a list of rows**
	2. **A scrollable vertical list**
	3. A scrollable horizontal list
	4. A grid-based view
2. What are two table view delegate protocols that you need to conform to?
	1. **UITableViewDelegate**
	2. NSCoding
	3. **UITableViewDataSource**
	4. UINavigationController
3. What are two required methods do you need to declare for the UITableViewDataSource delegate?
	1. optional func tableView(_ tableView: UITableView,
heightForRowAtIndexPath indexPath: NSIndexPath) -> CGFloat
	2. **func tableView(tableView: UITableView, numberOfRowsInSection section: Int) -> Int**
	3. **func tableView(_ tableView: UITableView,
cellForRowAtIndexPath indexPath: NSIndexPath) -> UITableViewCell**
	4. optional func tableView(_ tableView: UITableView,
  canMoveRowAtIndexPath indexPath: NSIndexPath) -> Bool
4. What is the reuse identifier in a table view cell?
	1. **A name for a prototype table view cell**
	2. **It is used to create a new table view cell from the storyboard file**
	3. **It is used to help recycle table view rows displayed for faster/smoother scrolling**
5. What is a data source?
	1. **The code file that will provide the information to display.**
	2. **It is usually backed by an array data structure**
6. What outlet names must you avoid for a custom UITableViewCell?
	1. **imageView**
	2. **textLabel**
	3. **detailTextLabel**
	4. myLabelName
7. How do you link a user interface ViewController or UITableViewCell to a code file?
	1. **Create the ViewController in your storyboard file**
	2. **Create a Cocoa Touch code file (i.e. MyViewController.swift)**
	3. **Set the storyboard file’s class name to the name of your code file (i.e. MyViewController)**
8. Why do you treat JSON data as optional?
	1. **Sometimes values might not exist**
	2. **It is based on the API and from experimentation**
	3. **You don't want your app to make assumptions and crash**