## 8.0 Quiz - Chapter 1 Topics ##

1. What kind of quantities would you represent with an Int?
	1. Body weight in lbs/kg
	2. **Steps walked**
	3. Car speed in mph/kph
	4. **Number of eggs**

2. What is the difference between a Float and a Double?

	1. **Double can hold 15 decimal digits (more precise)**

	2. **Float can hold 5 decimal digits**

	3. **Double uses twice the bytes (memory) on a 64-bit iPhone**

3. Why does Swift use optional types?
	1. **Some values may or may not exist at the start of an app**
	2. **Your app may have to wait for a server to transfer data**
	3. **User input or data might be invalid**
	4. **It provides compile time checking for code safety**
4. How do you create random integer values from [1-100]?
	1. **arc4random_uniform(100) + 1**
	2. arc4random_uniform(100)
	3. **arc4random_uniform(100 - 1 + 1) + 1**
5. What does it mean for Swift to be strongly typed?
	1. **You cannot mix and match variables without converting them explicitly**
	2. **There are compile time checks to prevent variable type mismatches**
	3. Double(3.4) + Int(3) is valid
	4. **Double(3.4) + Int(3) is a compile time error**
6. What does Auto Layout do?
	1. **It specifies the position and size of every UI element**
	2. It connects your code to your UI
	3. **It can calculate percentage-based size and position**
	4. **It uses layout constraints, or rules, to resize your UI to each iPhone screen size**
7. How do you connect app UI to code?
	1. **Right-click and drag with a mouse from UI to code**
	2. **On a track-pad, two finger click and drag from UI to code**
	3. **It can be done programmatically without the Storyboard using NSLayoutConstraints**
8. What happens if you try to force unwrap an optional type that is nil?
	1. **Your app crashes**
	2. It returns the value 0
9. What conversions return a value instead of nil?
	1. **String("Hello" + "There")**
	2. Int("Hello")
	3. **Double(3)**
	4. **Int("27")**
