# 2.1 Tutorial - Your First Xcode Project and the iOS Simulator #

Apps that you see on the App Store are a mixture of code, data, images, animations, and video. In this course series you will learn how to create apps that can be published on the App Store using Apple's tool Xcode.

Xcode allows you to group together all of the digital assets that make up your app. Throughout this course series you will build up an understanding of how to use Xcode effectively and efficiently.

Now it's time to write your first line of code. In this lesson you are going to display a message to the text-based Console inside of Xcode using the print() function. The Console is only visible when you are running your app with Xcode, the user will not see it when they normally use your app, it's sole purpose is to give you, the developer, insight as to what is happening in your app.

**Code is picky:** if you don’t type it exactly as it expects you to, it won’t work. Code is also case-sensitive and spelling-sensitive … in fact, you might learn how to spell English words better by coding.

The Simulator is used to simulate any kind of iOS device, Apple Watch, or Apple TV. What’s great about this is that you can run your app in a virtual iPhone 6S, an iPhone 4, or an iPad Pro without having to buy any hardware.

With that said, the Simulator doesn’t let you test everything. Certain features and hardware sensors are only available on a real iPhone. 

Most of the time you will be testing your app on the Simulator (because it’s the fastest!), but every now and then (when you want to show your app off) you are going to be running it on your real iPhone . . . this makes you an iPhone app developer!

## Code Files ##

The first code file that you’re going to change is the `ViewController.swift` file. This file contains code that will run when your app first starts.

The `viewDidLoad()` method is the first chunk of code that will run in your new iPhone app. You can insert any kind of code that you want to play with inside that code block.

	import UIKit
	
	class ViewController: UIViewController {
	    
	    override func viewDidLoad() {
	        super.viewDidLoad()
	        
	        print("Hi Paul Solt")
	    }
	}


# 2.2 Tutorial - Play With UI Using Storyboards in Xcode 7 #

Storyboards are a feature in Xcode that allow you to drag-and-drop User Interface (UI) elements on the iPhone canvas.

Left-click and drag any of the Buttons, Labels, or Sliders onto the Storyboard canvas (Main.storyboard).

Play around with the different UI elements from the bottom right side panel in Xcode (iPhone home button looking icon).


--------



# 2.3 Tutorial - Xcode 7 for Beginners - Panels and Editors #

Xcode has a lot of panels that allow you to quickly hide and show additional information. The icons in the top right corner allow you to toggle these panels—go try them out if you haven’t already done it yet!

If you’re working on a smaller laptop or computer monitor, you may want to hide some of the panels as you write code or design the UI.

The most important is the left panel: the Project Navigator. This gives you access to all of the resources that will be included in your iPhone app, along with any project settings you’ll need.

**Note:** When you just get started it’s very easy to check a setting, delete a file, and break something in your project (typo in your code file?).

If you run into a situation in which you can’t figure out what you did, just start a new Xcode project and start over. Re-write the code and see if that solves your problem. It's ok to re-write the code because that can sometimes fix your problem and it will help you learn faster.

When you are just starting, the more Xcode projects you create, the better. When you find your productivity halted because something doesn't work, start a new project or talk a short walk. I create a new project for every single idea or piece of code that I want to test out quickly… at this point I have created hundreds (maybe thousands) of Xcode projects.



--------



# 2.4 Quiz - Xcode Basics #



Now it’s time to test your understanding. Throughout the course there will be quizzes to help you benchmark what you know.

I’m not going to grade these quizzes—you’ll do that yourself. You can always retake the quiz to refresh your memory.

Now is a great time to start using your notebook! As you watch videos you might find yourself re-watching or referencing certain videos again. Take notes as you work through videos or experiment with different code. Your notebook is a tool that you can use to quickly jot down any thoughts or app ideas you might get from watching the lessons.

Here’s your quiz:

1. What languages can you use to make iPhone apps?

	* **Swift**
	* **Objective-C**
	* PASCAL

2. What is Cocoa Touch?

	* An app
	* **The iOS SDK from Apple**
	* Hot chocolate
	* Touch screen sensors

3. Where are the three buttons to hide the panels in Xcode?
	
	* * Bottom left
	* **Top right**
	* Top left
	* Bottom right

4. What does the .storyboard extension mean?

	* It is a Pixar movie file.
	* **It is the UI (User Interface) file for an iPhone app.**
	* It is a code file.
	* All of the above.

5. How do you start an iPhone app from Xcode?

	* Press the Stop button
	* Press the Play (Run) button
	* Press the keyboard shortcut <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>R</kbd>
	* Press the keyboard shortcut <kbd> Command</kbd> + <kbd>T

6. What should you do if you have a problem and can’t figure it out?
	
	* Google the error message
	* Restart and create a new Xcode project
	* Ask a question on http://forum.iPhoneDev.tv
	d.	All of the above

7. What version of Swift are you using?
a.	1.0
b.	1.2
c.	2.0
d.	2.1

8. Should you use beta versions of Xcode 7?
a.	Yes you can install side-by-side, but things might behave differently.
b.	No, never!
c.	At my own risk!

9. Why is a notebook conducive to faster learning?
a.	You can track your progress.
b.	You can write down questions and later answer them as you learn more.
c.	You can sketch and put your ideas on paper to flesh them out.
d.	You can track your accomplishments and check off things on your iPhone app TO-DO list.
e.	All of the above.

10. Why should you use Xcode’s Simulator?
a.	It is faster than running the app on my iPhone (less wait time!)
b.	You don’t have to plug in and unplug multiple devices.
c.	You can simulate any kind of Apple device.
d.	All of the above.
