# 2.4 Quiz - Xcode Basics #

Now it’s time to test your understanding. Throughout the course there will be quizzes to help you benchmark what you know.

I’m not going to grade these quizzes—you’ll do that yourself. You can always retake the quiz to refresh your memory.

Now is a great time to start using your notebook! As you watch videos you might find yourself re-watching or referencing certain videos again. Take notes as you work through videos or experiment with different code. Your notebook is a tool that you can use to quickly jot down any thoughts or app ideas you might get from watching the lessons.

Here’s your quiz:

-----

1. What languages can you use to make iPhone apps?

	* **Swift**
	* **Objective-C**
	* PASCAL

2. What is Cocoa Touch?

	* An app
	* **The iOS SDK from Apple**
	* Hot chocolate
	* Touch screen sensors

3. Where are the three buttons to hide the panels in Xcode?
	
	* Bottom left
	* **Top right**
	* Top left
	* Bottom right

4. What does the .storyboard extension mean?

	* It is a Pixar movie file.
	* **It is the UI (User Interface) file for an iPhone app.**
	* It is a code file.

5. How do you start an iPhone app from Xcode?

	* Press the Stop button
	* **Press the Play (Run) button**
	* **Press the keyboard shortcut <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>R</kbd>**
	* Press the keyboard shortcut <kbd> Command</kbd> + <kbd>T</kbd>

6. What should you do if you have a problem and can’t figure it out?
	
	* **Google the error message**
	* **Restart and create a new Xcode project**
	* **Ask a question on [http://community.SuperEasyApps.com](http://community.SuperEasyApps.com)**

7. What version of Swift are you using?

	* 1.0
	* **2.1+**
	* 2.0

8. Should you use beta versions of Xcode?

	* **No, Swift code will break or behave differently**
	* **No, it is best to use the public version of Xcode from the Mac App Store**
	* **Yes, if I am an experienced programmer and willing to troubleshoot unknown bugs**
	* Yes, if I am a complete beginner and I have no idea what I'm doing

9. Why is a notebook conducive to faster learning?

	* **You can track your progress with accomplishments**
	* **It helps you focus**
	* **You can write down questions and later answer them as you learn more**
	* **You can sketch your app ideas to start making them a reality**

10. Why should you use Xcode’s Simulator?

	* **It is faster than running the app on your iPhone**
	* **You don't have to plug-in and unplug multiple devices**
	* **You can simulate any kind of Apple device (without owning them)**
	* It is slower than a real device

