# Super Easy iPhone Apps #


* [1.0 - Introduction and Setup](http://community.supereasyapps.com/t/chapter-1-1-0-lesson-introduction-and-setup/708)
* 1.1.2 Homework - Ask Questions
* [2.0 - Xcode Basics](http://community.supereasyapps.com/t/chapter-1-2-xcode-basics/709)

# 1.1.1 Lecture - Introduction and Meet Paul Solt #

Welcome to Super Easy iPhone Apps!

Super Easy iPhone Apps is the starting place for anyone who wants to create an iPhone app. If you want to make apps as a hobby, to make additional income, or to switch careers.

My goal is to get you making your first iPhone app as quickly as possible. Please watch the next two videos about getting started and learning important changes happening with Apple and iPhone apps.

## Homework ##

1. Introduce yourself on the community forum (a little about yourself, any code experience you have, and why you want to make apps). 
2. Tell us (or Paul directly) when you plan to spend time making your iPhone apps: morning, evening; number of hours; days of the week, etc. 

# 1.2.1 Lecture - Welcome to Super Easy iPhone Apps #

If you've already set up your Mac computer (2008+) with El Capitan, Xcode 7, and a notebook, then you are ready to begin.

A notebook is required for you to learn faster. Use it to track your progress, ask questions (and keep track of previous questions), and sketch your app ideas. This is a learning hack that they don't teach in college or high school.

A notebook is a handy place to track your progress so that if you take a vacation from iPhone apps, you can get back up to speed and pick up where you left off in no time!

If you haven't set up your computer---or if you are looking to buy a Mac---check out my videos on getting started.

## Course Outcomes ##

1. You will be able to create iPhone apps.
2. You will be comfortable with getting help from the online community.
3. You will learn skills as you need them.
4. You will learn how to solve common problems with iPhone apps.
5. You will begin to think about apps beyond the code (App Store, marketing, design, ideas).


# 1.2.2 Lecture - How to Take this Online Course #

This course does not teach theory first, instead it is hands on, which means you will be learning how to create apps from day one. Everything you learn in this course is practical and the lessons will build upon each other.

## Background Experience ##

Your background experience will put you into one of these skill level categories:

1. New to programming
2. Beginner programmer
3. Experienced programmer

## 1. New to Programming ##

If you have never written any code before, you should watch each lesson sequentially. The lesson flow is designed for someone without any programming experience.

When you get stuck make sure you look for a *Bug Fix* lesson to fix a common problem. Most problems you have in the beginning can be fixed within 30 seconds if you know what to look for, which is why I have short *Bug Fix* lessons.

You will want to type in all the code, do not copy and paste code. The more code you write, the more muscle memory and understanding you will gain. Programming might feel awkward at first. 

When you first start it's more important to go through the motions using a working iPhone app. Over time you will start to understand how things work—just like you learned to speak English or your native language.

## 2. Beginner Developer ##

Do you have some code experience with iOS, Apple Watch, Swift, Objective-C or Mac development?

If you have struggled in the past with Apple's documentation, courses, books, and tutorials, you should follow most of the lessons sequentially. These lessons will help you build a stronger foundation and help you overcome common issues that stopped you in the past.

You will find the *PDF Lesson*, *Bug Fix*, *Lecture*, and *Tutorial* lessons very helpful at solving problems that you may have encountered from your previous programming experiences.

## 3. Experienced Developer ##

A large portion of the materials are oriented to someone who lacks programming experience. As an experienced developer who is trying to learn as fast as possible you will probably find yourself skipping around between lessons. That's totally normal.

Use the lesson type titles to find the topics that you want to learn. To get right into code or UI design you will want to start with the *Speed Coding*, *PDF Lesson*, and *Bug Fix* lessons.

# Lesson Type Keywords #

Throughout the course each video lesson is tagged with a keyword that helps you understand the intent of the lesson. These tags will help you jump between different lessons quickly.

1. Lecture - Discussion about a topic or concept
2. Tutorial - Hands-on demonstration
3. Bug Fix - How to avoid a common problem
4. Homework - Open ended discussion
5. Quiz - Assess what you don't know
6. Code Exercise - Reinforce topics with hands-on activities
7. Q&A - Recorded live interactive lessons
8. App Challenge - Build an app, dig deeper, and share
9. Solution - Explore how code works
10. Speed Coding - Faster coding with less explaining
11. PDF Lesson - Downloadable step-by-step lesson plan
12. App Idea - Explore interesting app ideas
13. Job Skill - Level-up your practical skills


# 1.2.3 Homework - Ask a Question #

There are no bad questions.

I'm never shy to ask a question—even if it makes me look dumb. I'm ok with that and you should be too.

Why? 

Because when I'm learning something new—asking a question to clarify helps me retain and process the information.

Asking questions is a learning reinforcement because it forces you to re-engage with the materials, you approach the problem from another angle, and you build your mental model (i.e. your understanding of a topic).

## Learning Obstacles ##

When I started making apps I was in your shoes. I had no idea what I was doing with iPhone apps. I didn't know why I did things. I didn't understand how things were connected.

How did I learn? I experimented. I wrote code. I downloaded code. I tweak code and watched the results.

My first apps weren't pretty and they were buggy, but they did what I wanted them to do. 

The code wasn't amazing, but it worked. That's the point.

You're here to first learn how to make apps the easy way. 

## Links ##

* [5 Learning Hacks (LifeHack.org)](http://www.lifehack.org/articles/productivity/5-hacks-speed-the-learning-process.html)
* [Ask Questions (LifeHack.org)](http://www.lifehack.org/articles/communication/ask-questions.html)

## Homework ##

If you've had issues learning to make apps—please email me and explain what issues you have encountered.

I want to know about any problems you encountered with my course materials.

1. Add me to your contacts: [Paul@SuperEasyApps.com](mailto:Paul@SuperEasyApps.com)
2. Email me your question—I read every email. =)
	1. Is there an obstacle that's blocking you from your goals?
	2. Is there a technical problem with the course lessons?
	3. Did you struggle learning from a book?
	4. Ask me a question about anything. 

# 1.2.4 Homework - Share Your Answer #

You're now part of a community—a community full of people with app ideas that are planning future careers.

We all learn together. 

If you learned something, now is your chance to share it with our community.

If you had a question or an obstacle that blocked you, or if you think someone else might run into the same problem—please share that question and answer it.

## Share on the Community ##

Share your question and answer on the [Super Easy Apps Community Forum](http://community.SuperEasyApps.com). 

#6. 3 Lecture - Important watch before you proceed

Xcode, iOS, and Swift are always changing---that's just how technology works.

In order to stay on top of iPhone apps, you need to make sure you are using the latest published version of Xcode. I don't recommend using Beta versions of Xcode, since there may be bugs or code changes that are not stable.

If Apple changes something, you'll get additional resources to help you work through any changes. Keep your eyes on the lookout for any updates about making iPhone apps.

Important Email Updates If you want to stay up to date on changes, you need to do two things:

7. Add PaulSolt@iPhoneDev.tv to your list of contacts
8. Move Paul Solt's messages to your Primary inbox (if you use Gmail)

This is the best way to learn about important changes and stay aware of new videos to help you build iPhone apps faster.

9. 4 Lecture - 6 Macs you can use for making iPhone apps

There are a variety of Mac computers in Apple's lineup.

My top recommendations are the Macbook Pro 13" or the iMac 21.5".

Your budget, portability, editing, and gaming factors may change which Mac is best for you. If you have a question, send me an email: PaulSolt@iPhoneDev.tv.

¥	Bare Minimum: Mac 2008+, 4GB RAM, 128GB ¥	Recommended: Mac 2012+, 8GB RAM, 256GB+

Links ¥	Apple Store ¥	Refurbished Macs (with 1 year warranty)

10. 5 Lecture - How to Download and Install El Capitan 10.11

El Capitan is a requirement moving forward if you want to make apps for iPhone, Apple TV, Apple Watch, iPad, and the iPad Pro. Not all the features are supported on Yosemite.

Download El Capitan and install now.

If you have mission critical work files, please make sure you check compatibility with your work software.

IMPORTANT: Back up any of your files, music, documents, photos before you upgrade (and it's a good idea to have these backed up to a Time Machine, another external drive, and Dropbox, etc.) I use dropbox.com to sync all my important files, github.com for my source code/apps (other good options are Time Machine and CrashPlan.com).

5.	6 Lecture - How to Download and Install Xcode 7

Xcode 7 is the latest version of Xcode, and it is packed with a ton of great features. Xcode is the tool with which you'll write code, design user interfaces (drag + drop), import images/audio/videos, and add data files and databases to power your iPhone apps.

Download Xcode and install it now.

Xcode combines all your files into a single executable (app) that you can run on any of the devices Apple creates. You can make an app for iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple TV, and Apple Watch using Xcode along with Swift.

6.	7 Lecture - What programming language for iPhone apps - Swift or Objective-C?

In this course you are going to learn Swift.

It is easier to start than Objective-C (the other Apple programming language).

What's more important than the language is learning the APIs.

iOS uses Cocoa Touch, which provides all the functionality for buttons, multiple screens, transitions, animations, and gesture input. If you learn how to use thesis APIs, those skills are directly transferable to making apps with Objective-C.

Objective-C is important to learn after Swift if you plan to work for a company building apps or if you need to integrate with Open Source code projects.

Swift is the future of all apps, and everything is going to transition to it. You should start with it first because it is easier. If you're coming from Java, C++, C, C#, Javascript, Ruby, Python, or any other programming language, it is also going to look intimately familiar. 

7.	8 Lecture - What device should I make an app for?

If you are new to programming and have ideas for the Apple TV, iPad, Mac, or Apple Watch, you should start with iPhone apps.

Why?

Because more likely than not, you have an iPhone in your pocket right now . . . and it is easier to make apps for something that is always with you.

Learning how to code Swift with iPhone apps is a lot easier than any of the other platforms. Also, any app for Apple Watch must be part of an iPhone app, so you need to learn that just to get the app to install on your Apple Watch.

Once you get the hang of it, you can start to learn how to make apps for your new Apple TV, iPad Pro, or Apple Watch.


