4.0 Quiz - Xcode Fundamentals

Bold are correct answers

1. What is WWDC? 

	**Apple's World Wide Developer Conference**
	
	Well Water Diphtheria Cure
	
	**An excellent annual event with 100+ tutorial videos**
	
	**A networking event for both app makers and Apple engineers**
2. How can you get support faster?

	**Ask a concise question using no more than 1-3 sentences**
	
	**Watch "How to Share your iPhone App Project" using ZIP files**
	
	Ask a very long and unclear question
	
	**Get help from your peers by posting a question at http://community.SuperEasyApps.com**


3. What happens when you share an Xcode project that is missing a data file or image?

	The Xcode project works perfectly for your team
	
	**Your app has a build failure and will not start**
	
	**It is hard for other people (TAs, Paul, and your peers) to help you**
	
	**You will slow down your team with an avoidable error**


4. How can Playgrounds help you?

	**It allows you to prototype new algorithms or APIs**
	
	**It provides interactive coding and experimentation**
	
	**It offers more visual learning with a quick feedback loop**


5. What is the right way to add images to an Xcode project?

	**Drag and drop image, data, or video into the Project Navigator**
	
	Uncheck "Copy into project if needed" on the Add File Dialog
	
	**Check "Copy into project if needed" on the Add File Dialog**
	

6. What problem can you have if you drag a 15 megapixel image into a Playground?

	You won't have any issues
	
	**The Playgrounds will become unresponsive**
	
	**Input is delayed and makes it feel buggy**
	
	**Your Playgrounds code will not compile and update as you make changes**


7. What should you do when using images in a Playground?

	**Resize the photo to make it smaller (less than 1000 pixels wide)**
	
	**Remove very large photos from the Resources folder inside the Playgrounds file**
	

8. When should you use an Xcode project instead of a Playground?

	**When you need an iPhone sensor, GPS, messaging service, etc.**
	
	**When Playgrounds is slow or doesn't respond quickly**
	
	**Most of the time you should create a throwaway Xcode project because it is currently more stable (Xcode 7.2)**


9. What is the point of debugging your iPhone app in Xcode?

	**Debugging helps you see what the code does line by line**
	
	**It helps you find crashing problems and fix them**
	
	**To understand the order in which lines of code are executed**
	
	**To inspect variables and logic as your app is paused using Xcode**


10. Can Playgrounds in Xcode 7.2 be debugged?

	Yes
	
	**No**


11. When should you use the iPhone/iPad/Watch/TV Simulator?

	Always

	**90% of the time**

	10% of the time

	Never

12. Why should you use the iPhone/iPad/Watch/TV Simulator?

	**The Simulator enables faster iterative development**
	
	It gives you direct access to all of the hardware sensors
	
	**You don't need to wait for the app to install slowly via USB**
	
	**The Simulator runs on a fast Mac CPU instead of a slow mobile CPU**

13. What should you do when you make a .zip file to share online?

	**Test that all the files are included by unzipping the .zip file on your Desktop**
	
	Post your zip file online without testing it
	
	**After unzipping, open the .xcodeproj or .playgrounds file, and run it**
	
	**Fix any problems with your original Xcode project and create a new zip file**

14. How can you backup your iPhone app using Finder on Mac?

	You don't need to backup because you write perfect code without bugs and errors
	
	**Copy and paste the top level Xcode directory**

