# 1.7 Quiz - Data and JSON #


1. What is a Swift Dictionary?
	1. **A collection type that can store multiple pieces of information**
	2. **A key/value store**
	3. A special integer type
	4. **It is like an English dictionary with words and definitions**
2. When would you use a Dictionary type?
	1. **When you work with data from servers**
	2. **When you need to store user preferences**
	3. **When you work with JSON or XML web data**
3. How do you access the key "name" from a dictionary called people?
	1. **people["name"]**
	2. people[name]
	3. name[people]
	4. people["Name"]
4. What is the first index (position) in a Swift Array?
	1. **0**
	2. 1
5. What happens when you try to access position 100 from an Array with 5 elements?
	1. **A run-time crash (your app stops working!)**
	2. **An index out of bounds error (100 > 5)** 
6. How do you make an Array of Strings?
	1. **let array: [String] = ["Hello", "a", "list", "of", "strings"]**
	2. **let array = ["Hello", "a", "list", "of", "strings"]**
	3. let array = {"Hello", "a", "list", "of", "strings"}
7. How you access the 100th element of the top 100 apps Array?
	1. **top100Apps[99]**
	2. top100Apps[100]
	3. **top100Apps.last**
	4. **top100Apps[100 - 1]**
8. What happens when your .json data file is formatted incorrectly using the JSONObjectWithData method from NSJSONSerialization?
	1. **An error is thrown (Swift error handling)**
	2. **You need to handle the error in a catch statement**
	3. **Your app stops running your normal code and starts running any code in your catch statement**
9. What is the top level object for the JSON starting and ending with: { }
	1. **Dictionary (JSON Object)**
	2. Array
10. What is the top level object for the JSON starting and ending with: [ ]
	1. Dictionary (JSON Object)
	2. **Array**