{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 4.0 Quiz - Xcode Fundamentals\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 Bold are correct answers\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is WWDC? \uc0\u8232 
\b Apple\'92s World Wide Developer Conference
\b0 \uc0\u8232 Well Water Diphtheria Cure\u8232 
\b An excellent annual event with 100+ tutorial videos
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b A networking event for both app makers and Apple engineers
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How can you get support faster?\uc0\u8232 
\b Ask a concise question using no more than 1\'963 sentences
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b Watch \'93How to Share your iPhone App Project\'94 using ZIP files
\b0 \uc0\u8232 Ask a very long and unclear question\u8232 
\b Get help from your peers by posting a question at http://community.SuperEasyApps.com
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What happens when you share an Xcode project that is missing a data file or image?\uc0\u8232 The Xcode project works perfectly for your team\u8232 
\b Your app has a build failure and will not start
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b It is hard for other people (TAs, Paul, and your peers) to help you
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b You will slow down your team with an avoidable error
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How can Playgrounds help you?\uc0\u8232 
\b It allows you to prototype new algorithms or APIs
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b It provides interactive coding and experimentation
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b It offers more visual learning with a quick feedback loop
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is the right way to add images to an Xcode project?\uc0\u8232 
\b Drag and drop image, data, or video into the Project Navigator
\b0 \uc0\u8232 Uncheck \'93Copy into project if needed\'94 on the Add File Dialog\u8232 
\b Check \'93Copy into project if needed\'94 on the Add File Dialog
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	6.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What problem can you have if you drag a 15 megapixel image into a Playground?\uc0\u8232 You won\'92t have any issues\u8232 
\b The Playgrounds will become unresponsive
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b Input is delayed and makes it feel buggy
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b Your Playgrounds code will not compile and update as you make changes
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	7.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What should you do when using images in a Playground?\uc0\u8232 
\b Resize the photo to make it smaller (less than 1000 pixels wide)
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b Remove very large photos from the Resources folder inside the Playgrounds file
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	8.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 When should you use an Xcode project instead of a Playground?\uc0\u8232 
\b When you need an iPhone sensor, GPS, messaging service, etc.
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b When Playgrounds is slow or doesn\'92t respond quickly
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b Most of the time you should create a throwaway Xcode project because it is currently more stable (Xcode 7.2)
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	9.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is the point of debugging your iPhone app in Xcode?\uc0\u8232 
\b Debugging helps you see what the code does line by line
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b It helps you find crashing problems and fix them
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b To understand the order in which lines of code are executed
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b To inspect variables and logic as your app is paused using Xcode
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	10.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can Playgrounds in Xcode 7.2 be debugged?\uc0\u8232 Yes\u8232 
\b No
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	11.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 When should you use the iPhone/iPad/Watch/TV Simulator?\uc0\u8232 Always\u8232 
\b 90% of the time
\b0 \uc0\u8232 10% of the time\u8232 Never\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	12.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Why should you use the iPhone/iPad/Watch/TV Simulator?\uc0\u8232 
\b The Simulator enables faster iterative development
\b0 \uc0\u8232 It gives you direct access to all of the hardware sensors\u8232 
\b You don\'92t need to wait for the app to install slowly via USB
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b The Simulator runs on a fast Mac CPU instead of a slow mobile CPU
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	13.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What should you do when you make a .zip file to share online?\uc0\u8232 
\b Test that all the files are included by unzipping the .zip file on your Desktop
\b0 \uc0\u8232 Post your zip file online without testing it\u8232 
\b After unzipping, open the .xcodeproj or .playgrounds file, and run it
\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\b Fix any problems with your original Xcode project and create a new zip file
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	14.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How can you backup your iPhone app using Finder on Mac?\uc0\u8232 You don\'92t need to backup because you write perfect code without bugs and errors\u8232 
\b Copy and paste the top level Xcode directory
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
}