<!--
Marked Style: Super Easy Apps
-->
  
#LINKS

## 5.0 - Get Help Quickly from Online Resources ##
[5.0 - Get Help Quickly from Online Resources](COMMUNITY LINK)

## 5.3 Homework - Introduce Yourself to the Community ##
[5.3 Homework - Introduce yourself to the Community](http://community.supereasyapps.com/t/5-3-homework-introduce-yourself-to-the-community/768)

----
  
#5.1.1 Lecture - Quickly Get Help from the Online Community

There are a ton of great online resources for iPhone apps. The biggest challenge for a beginner is learning which resources are best for the task at hand. Google and general searching skills are key to finding answers to common bugs or learning brand new APIs (application programming interfaces) that Apple releases each year.

In these lessons you will learn how to take advantage of the Community forums, email support, and the video comments.

## Links ##

* [Super Easy Apps Community Forum](http://community.SuperEasyApps.com) 

  
#5.1.2 Lecture - How to Learn iPhone App Programming Faster
  
To learn faster, you need to be proactive. I keep a notebook (Moleskine squared) with me where I write down things that I'm working on, as well as questions that I need to answer.

Keeping track of what you're working is super important to stay productive and not get side tracked, plus it can give you a place to return when you take a short walk, stretch break, or lunch break.

## Join the Community ##

Super Easy Apps is an approachable community of people that want to learn and who want to use the latest technology from Apple to execute on their own visions. You might be job searching or you might be thinking about your next million dollar app idea. Either way, it's really important to connect with like minded individuals so that you can make progress towards your goals.

I have set up a variety of places for you to get help from both myself, my staff, and your peers:

##Helpful Online App Resources

1. Ask short and concise questions (not code questions) below [each course video](http://courses.SuperEasyApps.com)
2. If you have a code or user interface (UI) question, use the [Super Easy Apps Community forum](http://community.SuperEasyApps.com)
3. Take time to answer questions on the [Super Easy Apps Community forum](http://community.SuperEasyApps.com), because this will help you learn faster in addition to helping someone else
4. If you want more real-time help and discussion, the private [iPhone Mastermind group](http://iPhoneMastermind.com) might be right for you

## Links ##

* Paul's Notebook: [Squared Extra-large Moleskine](http://amzn.to/1jw9QqM)
* Paul's Pens: [Staedtler Pigment Liner 0.3](http://amzn.to/1Stdf62)
* Paul's Quick Notes: [Post-it Notes](http://amzn.to/1moceS5)
* [Super Easy Apps Community Forum](http://community.SuperEasyApps.com) 

#5.2.1 Tutorial - How to Ask Questions that Get Answered Quickly

When you have a problem, it's important that you seek help in a manner that others can answer your question without tons of effort.

It is important to be concise and clear to get help the fastest.

Have you ever received an email that was super long and asked a question at the very end? Maybe you've sent a couple of emails that were like that and never got a response.

When you ask short, concise, and clear questions you will get faster responses. 

You should strive to ask a question within 1-3 sentences, and you can follow your question with some more details on what your issue is.

## Email Question Checklist ##

1. Should you ask this question on the [community forum](http://community.SuperEasyApps.com)? Would it help others?
2. Did you attach a .zip (or github/dropbox link) of your entire Xcode project or Playground?
3. Did you test your .zip file on your Desktop (unzip and run the project)?
4. Is your question clear and concise (i.e. 1-3 sentences)?
5. Do you need to attach any screenshots or Youtube video links (30 second video)?

## Email Your Question to an iOS Developer ##
Please use this format when you email Paul (or anyone else).

**Subject**

Do: Write a clear and descriptive title for your email 
>My iPhone app was rejected from the App Store
>
>Crashing bug in viewDidLoad using touch gestures 

Don't: Write a generic message or I won't prioritize your email if it's a blocking problem
>Hey
>
>question

**Body**

Ask your question in the beginning, not the end. Use 1-3 sentences.

>Hey Paul,
> 
>  I was following along in video X and I had an issue that I can't solve. Can you look at my code sample (.zip Xcode project) that I have attached?
>
>  Here is the link to the lesson/tutorial: http://courses.SuperEasyApps.com
>
>Thanks for your time!
>
>-John

1. Including the link to the lesson is very helpful, so I can understand which resource is not clear, as well as background context.
2. Keeping the question within the first three sentences makes it easy to skim and get the gist within 10 seconds.
3. Calling out the lesson or copy/pasting the exact error code makes it easier for me to know exactly what is wrong.

## Links ##

1. [Email Etiquette](http://99u.com/articles/6975/email-etiquette-for-the-super-busy)
2. [How to Email a Busy Person](http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-email-a-busy-person-2015-11)
3. [5 Tips for E-mailing Busy People](http://fourhourworkweek.com/2008/05/19/5-tips-for-e-mailing-busy-people/)

# 5.2.2 Homework - Email Paul a Short Question #

* Do you have any questions?
* Did something not work?
* Are you confused?
* Are you struggling with learning?
* Why do you want to make apps?

If you have any questions at this point, I want you to email me directly. 

Right now.

Email me: [Paul@SuperEasyApps.com](mailto:Paul@SuperEasyApps.com)

I read every email I get, and I respond to every one (it just takes time).

Use the previous lesson to keep your question short, on point, and I will get back to you as soon as I get to your email. 

PS I respond quicker to short, concise emails. =)

  
#5.3.1 Tutorial - How to Use the Discourse Community Forum

The [Super Easy Apps Community forum](http://community.SuperEasyApps.com) is a great place to get help.

## Community Interactions ##

To keep the discussion relevant, helpful, and easy to read please use the following features.

**Like a Topic or Reply**

If you just want to show appreciation for a helpful response or answer, use the like button (heart).

**Respond with a Quoted Reply**

You can select text in a previous response and then press "Quoted Reply" to insert a snippet of the previous response in your new post. 

You can even do this multiple times to group responses or to address different points.

I recommend using this approach when responding, because it makes it easier to follow who is responding to what. By including some context, it's a lot easier to answer a question or provide feedback on your ideas.

**Make a Linked Topic Reply**

To keep message threads relevant, if you want to ask a question that is similar, just click on the plus icon (+) on the right to start a new Topic from the current post. 

This linked Topic is a great way to start a separate conversation based on an existing conversation, without overtaking the main point of original question.

## Links ##

1. [Discourse Overview](http://www.discourse.org)

# 5.3.2 Tutorial - Introduction to CommonMark and Markdown Formatting #

You need to learn Markdown or CommonMark text formatting.

It is a text format that will enable you to create HTML markup (i.e. formatted webpage/blog post content) without learning HTML code.

Markdown was created by John Gruber, but it hasn't been updated since 2004.

CommonMark is a community standard built off of the Markdown format. It is becoming an open standard and fixes bugs and inconsistencies from the original Markdown format.

You can use Markdown to write a book, ebook, github.com project README, github.com comments, reddit comment, Squarespace post (Markdown widget), or a Discourse post (i.e. [Super Easy Apps Community forum](http://community.SuperEasyApps.com)), etc.

## Links ##

* [Why CommonMark?](http://commonmark.org)
* [CommonMark Cheat Sheet](http://commonmark.org/help/)
* [CommonMark Tutorial](http://commonmark.org/help/tutorial/)
* [Super Easy Apps Community forum](http://community.SuperEasyApps.com)

# 5.3.3 Homework - Share Swift Code Samples From Xcode on Discourse #

The best way to get help is to post your code snippet (chunk of code) on the [Super Easy Apps Community forum](http://community.SuperEasyApps.com).

Indentation is the way you format code in a Discourse topic post or response. It will need to be either four spaces or eight spaces depending on the text formatting.

* **Code**: Indent Four spaces
* **Numbered list code**: Indent eight spaces

## Homework: Print Your Name and Three Facts ##

1. Create a new Xcode project to play with indentation and then add code to display your name, city, and three facts about yourself.
		
		print("Hi I'm Paul Solt from Rochester, NY")
		print("I love to throw a 175g Ultra-star disc from Discraft")
		print("I enjoy cooking food and chopping vegetables")
		print("I like when technology gets out of the way and helps me do something")
		
2. Create a new reply and paste your indented code with the community: 

	* [5.3 Homework - Introduce yourself to the Community](http://community.supereasyapps.com/t/5-3-homework-introduce-yourself-to-the-community/768)
		
##Use Xcode to Format Code Quickly
		
1. Indent your code properly

	1. Re-indent code: Select code and press <kbd>Control</kbd> + <kbd>i</kbd>
	2. Shift Right: <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>\]</kbd>
	3. Shift Left: <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>\[</kbd>

2. Copy the code the start of the first line to the end of the last line
3. Paste the code directly into your Markdown supported editor


## Update the Formatting in the Community Markdown Editor ##

You can also fix your code formatting on the Community forum when you edit a post (yours or someone else's that didn't format the code correctly).

# 5.3.4 Homework - Take and Share iPhone App Screenshots on Discourse #

There are many ways to take screenshots on your Mac. In this lesson you can leverage any or all of the approaches that I demonstrate. These skills are essential if you are planning to publish your app on the App Store, design marketing materials, or create a Press Kit for media attention.

## Your Homework ##

1. Add UI (user interface) controls to your iPhone app using your own photo, name, and three quick facts.
2. Change any of the text fonts, colors, and sizes as you see fit.
3. Take a screenshot of the Simulator using: <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd>
4. Take a screenshot of the iPhone screen: Press and hold `Power` followed by the `Home` button.
5. Upload the photo from your Desktop to your post from the previous homework.
6. Tip: You can use Photos via USB import, Air Drop, email, or iMessage to share the device screenshot to your Mac.

## 4 Ways to Take App Screenshots ##

# TODO: FIX the Mac Screenshots Here #

1. Mac Screenshots
	* Window: <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> +<kbd> 4</kbd>  and toggle with <kbd>Spacebar</kbd>
	* Area: Command + Shift + 4
2. Simulator Screenshot Keyboard Shortcuts
	* Save screenshot: <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd>
		* iOS 9+ Simulator will save to your Desktop
	* Copy to clipboard: <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>Control</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd>
		* Saves to clipboard for quick import into Photoshop or Sketch
3. iOS Device Screenshot
	* iPhone/iPad: Hold <kbd>Power</kbd> + Tap <kbd>Home</kbd>
	* Apple Watch: Press both <kbd>Home</kbd> + <kbd>Side</kbd> buttons
4. Xcode Screenshot
	* Go to `Xcode > Window > Devices > Select Device > Press the`  <kbd>Take Screenshot</kbd> `button`
	* Screenshots in Xcode 7+ are saved to your Desktop

## Disable Mac Screenshot Drop Shadows ##

1. Use Spotlight (<kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>Space</kbd>) and type `Terminal`
2. In Terminal paste the following commands:

	**Disable drop shadows:**
		`defaults write com.apple.screencapture disable-shadow -bool TRUE; killall SystemUIServer`

	**Enable drop shadows:**
		`defaults write com.apple.screencapture disable-shadow -bool FALSE; killall SystemUIServer`

## Links ##

* [Mac Screenshot Keyboard Shortcuts](Keyboard LINK)
* [iPhone Screenshots on iOS 9+](Keyboard LINK)
* [Disable Screenshot Drop Shadow on Mac using Terminal](https://tidbits.com/article/15616)
 
## Homework Link ##

* [5.3 Homework - Introduce yourself to the Community](HOMEWORK LINK)

# 5.3.5 Homework - Share a Video Using Quicktime and YouTube #

Youtube and Quicktime are great tools for sharing your progress on your apps, or even introducing yourself.

Post your video online via YouTube and update your previous homework with the new video introduction.

## Share Your Homework  ##

[5.3 Homework - Introduce yourself to the Community](HOMEWORK LINK)

Please be respectful and keep your video safe for work. 

## Create a Video Using Quicktime on Mac ##

1. Make a video using Quicktime
	1. Screen Recording: `File > Screen Recording`
	2. Movie Recording: `File > Movie Recording > Choose Camera`
2. Capture your iPhone Screen
	1. Plug in your iPhone via a USB Lightning cable
	2. Movie Recording `File > Movie Recording > Choose iPhone Camera`
	3. Record
3. Save the video to your Desktop

## Upload the Video to YouTube ##

1. Go to [http://YouTube.com](http://YouTube.com)
2. Create an account
3. Click `Upload` to upload your video
4. Copy the URL on the left side from Upload screen (or video view page)
5. Edit your previous post and paste the URL on a separate line.

## Create a Thumbnail ##

# TODO: Add the Mac screenshots for thumbnail#


1. Seek to a position in the saved Quicktime video 
2. Take a screenshot of the Quicktime window
	1. Resize the window to 1280x720 or 1920x1080
	2. Move your mouse cursor off the Quicktime video window
	3. Press: 
  
  
## Links ##
* [Brew Coffee Demo on YouTube](https://youtu.be/LZHwvFeJzrk)
  
## Homework Link ##
Upload your video to YouTube and then update your original Reply on the Super Easy Apps Community forum link below with that new video link.

[5.3 Homework - Introduce yourself to the Community](HOMEWORK LINK)



