2.11 Quiz - Auto Layout

1. What is Auto Layout?
	1. **A rule-based system to set both position and size of UI elements.**
	2. **A responsive design tool for different iPhone/iPad screen sizes.**
	3. An Android tool for UI design
	4. **Constraints that explain the width and height of a button, view, or label.**
2. Why do you need Auto Layout?
	1. **There are many different iPhone and iPad screen sizes.**
	2. **To express relational user interface layouts.**
	3. **It is the alternative is to hardcode pixel positions and sizes (not future proof).**
	4. **You don't need it for 2D/3D gameplay, but you can use it for game UI.**
3. Choose the constraints needed to center a Welcome label along the top of the screen.
	1. Vertical layout constraint
	2. **Horizontal layout constraint**
	3. **Top vertical constraint**
	4. Width constraint
4. What is intrinsic content size?
	1. **A standard size for a UI element like a on/off switch**
	2. **The default size of a UILabel with text**
5. What is the container margin?
	1. **The horizontal or vertical space on the sides of an iPhone screen.**
	2. **A standard distance that Apple recommends for edge UI layout.**
6. What is a layout constraint?
	1. **A rule that can be used to describe a button's position.**
	2. **A rule that can be used to describe the height of an image.**
	3. **A rule that can create 8 points of space between two labels.**
7. How do you enable resizable buttons?
	1. **Add images to the asset catalog.**
	2. **Enable slicing for the image in the horizontal or vertical directions.**
	3. **Make images that don't have gradients in the direct you want to stretch.**
8. What does @2x or @3x mean for an image?
	1. **The image is designed for a retina screen**
	2. **The image is 2x or 3x as big as the original image**
	3. The image will look blurry or blocky on a retina screen